Welcome back phenomenal go to people in this video.
We'll talk about area two denotes going to make Spike hazards.
Let's make this more challenging for the player more dangerous the bunny and more spiky for the spikes
an area to denote and there's a 3D version obviously just called area an area to denote is just a part
of the game world where things can happen is going to detect when things are entering when things are
inside or where things are leaving and all you really need to know about an area 2D is how to use it.
So to use it you have to give it collision.
Now what's different here is that with a physics body something like a kinetic body 2D or rigid body
2D that collision is there to stop things from hitting is it's actually colliding not how it works in
every city in every 2D.
We're not colliding.
We're just detecting when things are coming in.
So really this shouldn't be called collision and should be called detection.
But we're going to use collision modes anyway so let's get into it.
The first thing I need to do is make a brand new scene and it's going to be a custom node to make an
area 2D 2D area for detection and 2D physics influence.
Great.
So I'm gonna call this spike top because we have multiple spikes you can use and you'll see wait a minute
before going any further let's give it a sprite.
And on the graphics on the environment scroll down you'll see a bunch of spikes spikes top and we start
with this one.
She's going to drag that into the texture and zoom right in now you'll see a little warning here.
We need that collision.
I could use a simple box but I'm not going to miss a polygon and we'll use it before we made the platform
so it's less an easy child node.
And I want a collision polygon 2D and let's add those nodes so create point.
This little green plus thing and just get them nice and close to the corners not worry about being too
precise because I can tweak them so as you like to go here and drag it.
That seems pretty solid.
Okay.
So right now I have a very simple area 2D right.
Sprite goes with its.
So it looks like and a collision shape but it's not going to do anything.
Let's make it do something.
First thing.
Let's save it and I'll make a brand new folder.
NICOLE This has its and Spike topped up TSC and that sounds good.
Now let's give it a script.
So new script and I'm only this empty is good name for it.
She is not a good name for it because they're were going to share the same script so let's call it hazards.
I might have multiple so much has is that GDP create that I might have multiple types of hazards right.
I have Spike top Spike bottom single spikes we don't need a different script each one.
And the reason we're doing this is so we connect the signals so it's going to note and you'll see here
we have all these options I don't want area entered.
The reason is I'm not having to area 2D bump into each other.
I want body entered and you'll see here it the physics city body I'm going to connect that to itself
and there it is.
Now see here passes in an argument the body the thing that has entered it so every time anything enters
this area this signal can fire.
And what you could do here is you can put an if condition in right.
So if body dots less a name.
Right so if the name property of it is player and I'm actually checking not setting such B equals equals
then do a thing or I could do if body is kin somatic body to day right.
If it is of this class if it is this no type do that however doesn't even ease your way of doing this.
I don't need a conditional statement what I'm going to do is use these collision last.
Let's go back to the inspector and over the collision and you know what.
Let's set a new collision lab for us so projects project settings and on a scroll down till I see landings
to 2D physics layer 3 can be hazards.
Great.
So now when I look over here in the collision I compress these three dots to see what they're called
much easier than hovering over them.
So the layer is what the object is.
The mask is what it can interact with.
It is a hazard.
It is not terrain.
It is not player and it can only interact with players.
It cannot interact with trains.
It cannot interact with other hazards important.
You could have multiple spikes overlapping but you don't want them to trigger this hut thing so it can
only be itself going to be a terrain and it can only strike with the player just to make things like
the safe.
We go into the player collision and just make sure that it can interact with terrain and hazards.
Now actually we don't need to do that because as long as one mask can interact the other it'll work.
But it's good practice.
So let's get back to a spike top and make it do a thing.
Just to check it's working let's go.
Prints Hello Bunny.
Who is going to print it in the output now and it's actually put on the level.
So let's save that get back to the 2D view the level and I want to create a new node just like we did
with the looney lips thing when we looked at the node a solution for stories and to create a brand new
empty node.
I'm going to use a basic node not a node 2 Deeks I don't want this to have position that's too easy
to drag out of place I'm going to call it hazards because spikes if you like uncommon hazards and within
that I'm going to instance in just like we do with a player a spike top.
Okay so here's my spike top first you know just can't see it.
Not a problem.
Let's go back to the spike top scene and under canvas item visibility you'll see modulate.
This is what am I doing to the colors here.
Well let's get a different color we think about orange.
No but he's like orange don't they.
What don't bodies like.
I hear the bunnies don't like
a dark red hair.
They despise dark red.
Why.
I don't know.
Okay that looks pretty good.
If I save that I should eat nice deep red spikes.
Now when you try and drag this you gonna come up with a problem.
Yes.
Select my spike top I'm gonna drag it.
Okay that works fine.
What happens if I just slightly miss it.
Oh no.
Why is that happening.
Well right now I'm in select mode so I'm going to try and select whatever I'm looking at if I don't
get it just right.
It's gonna select the wrong thing.
Easy solution.
Select Spike top click the move icon or w on the keyboard and just place it where you want.
You'll know you'll have done this correctly.
If when you do run this test and we you the print Hello Bunny.
If it's overlapping we shouldn't get a hello Bunny but when I enter Hello Bunny TALABANI Talabani fantastic
you might get a bug with how a bunny comes up once the moment you press play.
If that's happening you'll collisions all set up correctly.
For example if I said it to also work with terrain which is this one here Hello Bunny will come in immediately
because the moment entered the scene something has entered it.
Now this can get crucial because every single spike that overlaps it once we start taking lives away
from Bunny are going to take a life away from Bunny the moment Bunny enters the level and that's no
good.
So let's not do that.
Okay.
So we have a simple Hello Bunny test.
It works great little more time.
Here's a bunny emigrating it great.
Lots of greetings.
But that's not what you want.
So instead let's give bunny a hut function so duly do to do and let's figure out what we want to happen.
The first you want to happen is I want Bunny to jump when it went her right.
So I want a visual cue the player that's nice and easy we have that here.
I'm going to copy this line motion dot Y minus equals jump speed seconding his plan he's gonna lose
a life that's easy we can do that this got back up to Constance.
Now this isn't gonna be a constant this will be a variable Y because this will change at runtime.
Okay if it's a constant I don't want it to change the number that will never change once the game is
running but this will change so lives equals three.
That seems like a good number.
So let's also lose a life.
So lives minus equals one.
Great.
And then we could just do a simple if condition if lives are less than zero.
And again nice and easy.
Right we've already made the end game function that's going to work just great.
I've also put too many indents in here so I don't need that next thing to do is go back to hazards and
actually make this work.
Nice and easy.
Body Dot.
But now we know this will work because we're literally just written this but if we wanted to we could
put in some basic error correction.
So if the DOT has method
hurt right.
Nice simple error check you'll see this a lot by the way when we're using methods in other scripts we're
gonna call them as strings we don't have to put the brackets in.
That won't work because it will try and call heart brackets brackets brackets brackets won't work.
So instead just hurt.
So if it has this method call this method.
Realistically we don't need to run this because we're doing this with collision lands but if we didn't
this would be another way we could do it.
Okay.
So on Spike top body entered body diehard let's pass play and see what happens.
Hmm.
Doesn't look as working right.
Well let's find out.
2 3.
Game over but we talk funny to jump.
Why isn't Bunny jumping when hurt.
Well let's take a look at our physics process.
Every single frame we're going to apply gravity try and jump try and move try and animate then move
and slide apply gravity.
Let's take a look.
If you fall off in the world limit and the game.
That's fine if you're on the floor.
Set.
Motion to zero.
This is competing.
Okay so what's happening is 60 times a second as much as it can.
And I know that because project settings physics common physics frames per second.
60 60 frames per second.
It's going to set the motion to zero from the floor.
So what's happening is this is setting and immediately being on.
So the first thing I need to do is move up by tiny amount position.
Don't Y minus equals one pixel.
That's all it'll take.
But this itself isn't enough because if I run this here still won't work right.
So let's try this.
What if we move up then pulls a frame and linger to do that.
When you use yield yield means don't do anything until I tell you otherwise.
I guess a yield needs to listen to something is going to listen.
Get tree.
Right that's the function it's going to listen for and get trees going to give a signal and the signal
going to give one signal going to give is idle frame idle frame means when the next frame happens.
So just wait one frame then move up.
So we're going to move up by pixel and the next day just wait a frame and then move up and that is going
to bypass gravity.
I'll show you going to I'm not press anything.
3.
Done.
Perfect.
And this should work every time.
So if I jump into it hands off the keyboard.
Perfect.
So this will happen a lot right.
Sometimes the physics is gonna catch up with the script so it's going to happen before things can do
anything else.
You just need to wait afraid you got if you want to duplicate this and do this in two frames.
No real need.
Hello folks Yang from the future here.
Now we have a bug.
I didn't notice this bug till we got about four or five videos ahead.
At which point I figured out how to fix it but just so you know you might have something that looks
a bit like this.
Now I want to show a future gameplay here.
So don't freak out when you see a bunch of coins.
So here we are in a future version the game with a bunch of coins and I gooey all stuff you gonna be
making soon.
But look what happens when I walk into the spike from the side.
So is that not happening.
Well yeah.
If I jump on it sometimes it'll work and sometimes it won't.
Let's not worry about that just yet.
And when we catch up the code is looking familiar.
I'll show you how can fix that.
So bear with me for a few videos.
We are gonna fix that bug.
Meanwhile back to present day me and now I've got a challenge for you.
So let's go back into my 2D and out of distraction free mode.
I can for example duplicate this one and put it over here and maybe I want to make a third one but just
keep duplicating I'm on move.
So does it matter where I'm clicked.
And let's put this one over here.
I could go back and Spike tops and make it top one or a single one.
My challenge for you add spikes your level Spike it up a bit as I say use the spikes if you want to
make sure you test your level to make sure you can actually make it across there's no point making a
game that can't be played.
I know some people disagree with me.
I agree with me because I think I'm very agreeable so pause the video.
Customize your level a bit and when you come back I'll show you how I'm going to customize my
Mac.
So I'm gonna stick with these simple spy tops for now and I'm gonna lose them around it's a splotch
lodge and splotch.
You know what let's make this one a little bit difficult and put one right on the edge.
And see if I can actually do this.
Doo doo doo doo doo doo doo.
He's sound that way does sound like she did sound likes.
I think she has a sound.
Okay so let's try this.
Doo doo doo.
Little bit tricky I may have made this too fast.
Oh my God accompli my a game.
But look we have the basics of gameplay.
We have a nice simple level.
We've got some houses going on.
Nice and easy.
You'll notice the debugger is giving us some warnings.
Don't worry about these all these are saying is by the way you're using move in slide but I'm not using
the value I'm getting out of it.
We are using it.
It's just not aware we can disable those warnings if we want.
They're not doing any harm.
Meanwhile that brings us to the end the video in this video we've looked at setting up and using area
to denotes using collision mouse and.
So we don't have to write a bunch of conditional statements which is a really great way of saving time
and using yield to wait for frame which is a really cool technique so don't forget to share your levels
if you've made something you're proud of.
Or you just want people's feedback.
Let me see how you put the hazards in.
Meanwhile great stuff and I'll see you in the next video.